# Article Making Logical Sense Of The Newly Launched OpenAI ‘o1’ Model That ‘Thinks’ Longer And Keeps Hidden Its Ace-In-The-Hole Chain-Of-Thought
Written by Lance Eliot (Forbes)
Link to article https://www.forbes.com/sites/lanceeliot/2024/09/13/making-logical-sense-of-the-newly-launched-openai-o1-model-that-thinks-longer-and-keeps-hidden-its-ace-in-the-hole-chain-of-thought/?ss=ai

# My Thoughts
I found this article interesting because it's an important and insightful discussion on the way people interact with AI as it becomes a more advanced and more prominent part of our lives. Eliot explains that the hyped up new OpenAI model, "01", has been released, and may be slightly less exciting than people thought. He explains that while this model is more accurate in solving science, math, and coding related problems than GPT-4, it falls short in performing in other types of tasks. As people often think of progress, especially relating to technology, as just an overall better version of what existed before, this more nuanced half-step forward/half-step backward is surprising to many who have been anticipating its release. Another way that the new 01 model is different- not necessarily better- from previous models is that OpenAI decided to prevent this model from sharing its chain of thought with users, for which they cite several reasons, including competitive advantage as well as preserving accuracy and reliability of reinforcing the model, which they claimed could be disturbed by users prompting for chain of thought. This change was surprising to users as well as advocates of open-source, who promote accessibility of software and knowledge. These two changes in 01 raise important topics of conversations surrounding AI in our society and how we will move forward in interacting with these models. The first change, the growth of the model in one area but not others, is important for many users and investors who view AI as genius, all-knowing, thinking, powerful, magical robots. This highlights that AI is still a majorly developing field that can still be unreliable and which has a lot of unknowns- of how exactly it works, what it can do now, and what capabilities it can have in the future. The second change opens up a broader conversation of how we want to let AI exist in our society, what precedents we want to set surrounding accessibility and democratization of data, information, and technology. More broadly, as technology advances at unprecedented rates and to unprecedented levels, it's important to be open about the advantages and drawbacks of AI as part of society and think critically about how to approach our interaction with it. Eliot ends the article with two quotes: “Where a new invention promises to be useful, it ought to be tried.” -Thomas Jefferson, and “The invention of the ship was also the invention of the shipwreck.” -Paul Virilio. These quotes perfectly express the joint excitement and also caution and skepticism with which we should approach the emergence of major AI products, and the release of 01 demonstrates this.